Don hearnen everybody I'm thrilled to be
here thank you for taking 15 minutes to
spend with us and talk about the X
Factor any guesses what the x is an X
Factor
anybody does anybody think that AI is
The X Factor for your business and can
lead to exponential growth I'll see how
many X's I can use throughout the the
presentation here in the next 10 or 15
minutes how many words do I say that
start with the word or the sound
ex so the first thing I want to do here
is just show you what the dictionary
says the X Factor is it's a variable
that leads to a
significant impact in the outcomes that
you drive so today we'll focus on
different areas that AI can accelerate
your
business and different factors that you
need to think about as you are building
products and solutions that you want to
take and sell to your
clients now I think we mentioned when I
came up on stage that I'm with
IBM sometimes people don't think about
IBM in the mainstream aspect of being a
technology company that develops AI
technology but just by show of hands or
even just yell it out shout it out here
in the audience does anybody know how
long long IBM has actually been focused
on developing the AI technology that we
have in market today let's just do a
range we started developing it in 19 40
1940 40 years okay 40 years that's a
good guess you're close actually it was
actually a little bit longer than 40
years ago it was in 1956 when what we
believe is AI today was originally
started from a development perspective
that's not just say though that what
we're doing today is what we were doing
in
1956 what we're doing today is two
things we are focused on first of all
helping organizations accelerate how
they go to market with AI by providing
the best of breed technology and
innovation in the AI space available and
we do that through being very open
focusing on open source focusing on on
developing AI so that it fits the
purpose of your company and it fits the
domain or expertise that you need to
deliver in how you sell to your
customers and how you ultimately make
money okay so this slide here is to just
give you something to think about how do
you leverage AI today
to drive all of the outcomes that you
need to as a startup as a big
organization or Enterprise that has a
startup organization within it really
what you're wanting to do here is grow
Revenue right at the end of the day
every single company on the planet needs
to figure out a way to make money and
every organization needs to figure out a
way to attract new clients and to grow
revenue streams or routes to Market and
sources of revenue in order to track new
clients so we want to talk to you about
how you could leverage AI technology um
just to do that exact thing so when we
talk about how do you accelerate your
business
we really do look at a couple of
different ways that organizations are
looking at productivity enhancements
through leveraging AI
technology and I will say that there's a
lot of information and a lot of
Statistics here on the page but when I
think about how do organizations that I
work with look at how to leverage AI
technology I would break it down into
three different silos in every company
for every organization or leader that
I've spoken to they look at how do I
increase employee
productivity so that is leveraging and
embedding AI into how my employees work
how they collaborate with each other how
my internal business processes and
systems work and leverage AI to make
them optimized and more efficient to
deliver better outcomes internally for
my
company number two is how do I appear to
my customer base how do I Market my
company how do I take advantage of AI
and technologies that allow me to
interact with my customers on a more
efficient more costeffective basis for
example in a call center if you have
customers calling into your support
organization and you want to accelerate
how quickly they can answer questions
provide responses to your customers to
then reduce the amount of time that
customers are working with you on
customer support that's one of the ways
that you are externally interacting with
your customer base and then number three
the area that's very dear to my heart is
how do you take advantage of AI in the
products and the solutions that you sell
to your customers how do you leverage
technology to attract new clients
enhance the products that you bring to
Market how do you take that enhancement
and drive new sources of revenue and new
Revenue streams by attracting and
getting to new clients so if you take
all three of those different areas and
you apply them and you look at the
different productivity challenges that
we have here on this slide you can
correlate and you begin to see where you
need to make investments from an AI
perspective in order to accelerate your
business one of the areas I want to
highlight here on this page is
development and it operations I do
believe this is one of the areas right
now that we are still seeing a lot of
organizations testing and experimenting
with AI to decide where to start if you
take advantage of the large language
models and the generative AI features
that are today's mainstream AI
conversation how do you leverage those
in the development cycle that you have
of your products so that you can get to
Market faster so that you can reduce the
amount of time that your developers and
your companies are working on uh adding
enh ments to the products that you bring
to Market so some of the different areas
that you probably want to think about is
that the product development like cyle
itself could take
tremendous uh advantage of AI and then
drive a significant outcome for your
company and how quickly you get to
customers and new customers there are a
number of barriers that organizations
are deal dealing with and I think
probably these are not a surprise to a
lot of you
you integration and scaling challenges
is one of the areas that people are
really still trying to experiment with
in the AI
space they are looking at how do I take
advantage of AI and go from
experimenting which I've been doing for
probably the last two to three years
since AI became such a mainstream topic
of conversation in every company and how
do I scale that inside of my business
we're going now and what we're seeing
trend-wise happen is going from
experimentation to really driving
Automation in the AI space we used to
talk about how important it was to get
the data model correct how important it
was to leverage the correct large
language model and where we are today is
moving toward how do you build models
that are tuned and trained on a specific
domain a specific industry for a
specific business need so we are
actually overcoming a lot of these
barriers as we continue to go through
this evolution of the AI technology road
map another area I want to point out
here is governance one of the biggest
considerations that companies of all
sizes need to make not just big
companies but small companies as you're
starting and organizations that are
going to leverage any kind of technology
is how do you govern your data how do
you govern that technology being
integrated or embedded into your
Solutions I think that here in the in
the UK and leveraging some of the
information and data that has come out
from the EU AI Act is very important but
if you're working with vendors that are
providing AI technology and they're not
focused on how do you govern and secure
and keep compliant in how you deploy the
AI technology or how you embed AI
technology to accelerate your your
business you are going to potentially be
exposed because you can't control some
of that data unless you know where data
came from so a really important piece of
how do you drive business value and how
do you exponentially grow and make a
significant impact in your business
around AI The X Factor is to really
think about how well the data is
governed and how well you know where the
data came from I'll skip through the
rest of these for now but I want to come
here because I mentioned to you that one
of the ways that organizations are
looking
for how do I leverage AI to drive an
exponential impact to my company The X
Factor it really is moving toward AI
assistance some of you may hear these
things referred to as
co-pilots it's very it's not different
we call it AI assistance in our world
and the reason for that is because we
believe that across all of the domains
that you have and all of the functions
that you have in your company there's
going to be a place for AI and there's
going to be a way that AI will enhance
that experience or the productivity of
the person or the end user that is
interacting with it so if your assistant
your virtual agent your digital
assistant your co-pilot your ultimate
end user has the ability to have
Automation and integration with with
back-end Enterprise systems your ability
to increase productivity of your
employees the first example I shared a
little while ago is going to
increase with automation we talk about
the ability in the AI assistant or the
virtual assistant or digital assistant
to have a conversation which is really
common a chat via a chatbot like
experience in this digital ass
istent and instead of just having a
conversation where the large language
models and the data models that are
behind the scenes are driving the
answers that you see in that
conversational AI interface really
evolving to how do I take action or how
do I execute a command inside of that AI
assistant which is one of the reasons
that we are calling it an assistant
because it is essentially going to
become a person for example in the HR
example on the page here the ability for
me as an employee of a company to go
into an AI assistant for HR that's
trained on the HR terminology and
vernacular that understands comments and
commands like transfer this employee to
John Smith the new manager give this
employee a salary increase and you do
that through a chat in this AI assistant
and then behind the scenes the workflows
and the decisions and the integration
and interaction with the data model will
happen automatically through automation
so the future of AI and the evolution
that we're in today is really driving
toward making it more tangible and
realistic to how you run your business
if I go back again and I talk
about the other Factor the products that
you develop
and you sell to your customers how do
you enhance those with AI perhaps you're
a fintech and you're working in the
banking industry and you
are creating a new loan and you want the
loan processing agent to be able to talk
to the
underwriter and provide data and
information directly to the underwriter
through a conversational AI system
that's reality and you could embed AI
technology into your product that is
that loan processing software platform
if you will and you could drive that
outcome with AI and with AI assistance
you see a
number of logos at the bottom of the
screen the logos are here to just give
you an example of all of the companies
that you're probably familiar with and
you probably use inside of your company
every day that are thinking about AI in
this way and thinking about the future
of AI being again very focused on how do
I go from
experimentation to scaling in my company
so speeding up your AI ready business I
just want to summarize a couple points
that we made here before because I think
it's really important to think about
multimodels there's lots of vendors out
there that are creating large language
models there are lots of vendors out
there that do them in an open source
kind of way I'm very familiar with one
of those there are other proprietary
vendors out there as well but all of the
models are about making sure that
they're trained and tuned to The Domain
that is specific to your company or your
functional
area how you leverage your data how you
govern the data how you govern the
technology and the implementation of the
technology again very
important how do you leverage and even
more importantly how do you fill the
skills gaps that every company on the
planet is dealing with right now by
leveraging AI
technology and how do you create client
ready use cases to leverage the best
practices that are out there from some
companies that have been in this
business for a long time and some
companies that are coming into the
business over the last three to five
years and then most importantly to me my
favorite topic is how do you go to
market and how do you drive new clients
how do you drive new business streams
how do you drive new routes to Market so
that you can ultimately grow your
business by leveraging technology I do
believe that's the X Factor and when we
identify the use cases that get us there
and drive that significant impact your
businesses will grow exponentially and
again I do thank you for your time here
today and for listening to how you can
accelerate your business through the
xfactor being AI thanks everybody